# 6/30/20
I've been following [this guy's tutorial](https://cadiboo.github.io/tutorials/1.15.2/forge/) on how to mod with Forge 1.15.2, which has worked great with 1.16.1, no compatibility issues I can see. The problem is his tutorial ran out just after teaching how to create a block &ndash; the remaining steps are in what I suspect to be a permanent WIP state.

I'm hung up on how to create a BlockItem. The BlockItem class is what associates the *block* in the world with the *item* in the inventory. Specifically, I have to reference my example_ore block (Block object) somehow in the creation of the example_oreitem (BlockItem object). There's a spot in the creation of a BlockItem to reference a Block object. I just don't know how to reference it. Rather, I don't know what the best practice is to reference it &ndash; I could probably hack something together, but without understanding what I'm doing I wouldn't want to fuck something up. That's why I was really happy to have this cadiboo guy who seemed to really understand how to code well *and* apply it in the Forge environment *AND* give pretty good overviews of the coding concepts he was employing.

Though I do feel like I should maybe just try shit out, instead of scouring the internet for a similar tutorial. Especially cuz each tutorial seems to teach you to do things a little bit differently (hell, even cadiboo's example mod code was different than the way he coded in the tutorial), I definitely don't understand my code enough to know *how* it's different than other people's approaches. Only that it is.

Anyway. It seems the only class to update when adding new items is `ModEventSubscriber`. The second example item went into the ItemGroup without any modifications to `ModItems` or `ModItemGroups`. Also the [Forge documentation](https://mcforge.readthedocs.io/en/latest/blocks/blocks/) states that Blocks don't get assigned groups, only BlockItems. So I don't know exactly how the `ModBlocks` class is going to fit in if blocks aren't referenced in `ModItemGroups` the way items are. Maybe `ModBlocks` isn't needed? These are the things I need to figure out before I try to reference a BlockItem's Block.

# 7/1/20
Two successes today; BlockItems and block textures.

I solved the problem from yesterday by moving the creation of the example_ore block out of the onRegisterBlocks event. I created the Block object within the ModEventSubscriber class, so I could call it in both the onRegisterBlocks event and onRegisterItems event. This is something super simple that I could have done no problem in a practice environment, but I hesitate to change code in an environment like this. I only understand the basics of what I'm doing. Development is such a huge far-reaching world and I only have a tiny glimpse into it. The only thing I know is that I know nothing, and I'm fully aware that a code change I view as simple could have huge implications &ndash; or none at all.

Getting involved into this stuff is bringing back that old thought I stuffed away. "I should have been a developer." Matt's said it a couple of times, which I think is what brought it back to mind. Have I been ignoring it because it's too painful of a reality to face? Because it's an acknowledgement that I'm ten years late on my passion? Or is it just typical campaigner personality &ndash; I believe it's the answer to all my problems until the shiny wears off? Everything does lose its sheen eventually, and I've yet to find something I hung onto after that happens. It could just be that I'd think I should become a developer until I found out what it's actually like to be a developer day in and day out. Grass is greener after all. 

But nothing happens if you don't try it out, so...

Anywho, it took a while to sort out the block textures. I eventually realized I jumped a few too many steps ahead in trying to create a block with different textures for each side. Once I went to just a single texture, it worked pretty smoothly. Now I've got three items in the game! And one of them is a block! And when you throw it on the ground it looks like a little 3D model of a block just like vanilla items! Yay!

I really don't seem to be using `ModBlocks` at all. I don't think it's needed. Blocks in the inventory are all handled by BlockItems, which are Items, which means they're included in the stuff `ModItems` does. Blocks themselves never exist in inventory so there's no need to categorize them into an item group.

I've got two main goals identified: (1) Make a block with different textures on each side. I've seen glimpses into how to do this, will definitely need to learn and explore more before writing the code myself. It seems it involves making your own `Block` class in the mod &ndash; wouldn't that interfere with Minecraft's Block class? Dunno, gotta learn. [Cadiboo's Example-Mod repo](https://github.com/Cadiboo/Example-Mod) has been really helpful, even though the tutorials and explanations have run out. I'll have to study his code and learn the concepts behind it. (2) Make a tool. Again, this is going to involve some learning. I imagine there are some properties of the Item class to learn about (for that matter, gotta learn about all the properties to a Block as well). It's either going to be really simple &ndash; like a function that I simply stick onto Item.Properties() upon registering &ndash; or more complex &ndash; like defining my own Item class the way I suspect I need to for the Block issue. Still, this is Mel's Cool Axe Mod and I'm going to make a Cool Axe, damn it. 